Okay, let me now talk about how
we evaluate text categorization.
And in doing this, I'm going to come
back to the concepts of precision and
recall that we introduced
informally before.
But define them formally, and
show how they get put together
into combined measure.
The F measure,
that gets applied to Text Classification.
But it isn't only applied
to Text Classification.
You'll see these concepts
coming back again and
again as ways of evaluation of the tasks
in natural language processing.
The starting point from
understanding these measures
is the following 2-by-2 contingency table.
And so, for any particular piece
of data that we're evaluating,
there are essentially four states.
On one axis we're choosing whether
this piece of data correctly
belongs to a class.
Or whether it doesn't
correctly belong to a class.
So for example, if we're wanting to
decide whether a piece of email is spam,
where it either is spam
which is the correct class,
or it's not which is
the not correct class.
And so,
on this axis we're describing the truth.
Now, what we've done is built a system
that tries to detect the truth,
and so secondly, we're going to
look at the status of our system.
So our system could be saying
that this piece of data is spam,
or it could be saying that it's not spam.
And so, we're then going to
take these four things and
look at the four possibilities that occur.
And here they are.
So, if we're looking for
spam, one possibility
is the truth that it is spam and
that we said it was spam.
And so, that's then referred
to as a true positive.
Another possibility is that our system
thought it wasn't spam even though,
actually, it was.
And so, that's then a false negative.
It was treated as negative falsely.
On the other side of the dial,
it's possible that the piece
of email actually wasn't spam.
In that case, there are,
again, two possibilities.
Our system mistakenly thought it was spam,
so that's then a false positive,
where classifying something positively,
wrongly.
But the other possibility is it wasn't
a piece of spam, and our system said
it wasn't a piece of spam, and
then we're dealing with a true negative.
Okay, so if we're doing this kind of
classification with two classes that
are perhaps about equally common
in your email, spam and non-spam.
It seems the reasonable thing to
do is just to look at accuracy.
So for accuracy,
the ones that count as you getting
the answer correct are these ones.
So, if you want to work out the accuracy,
the accuracy equals
the true positives plus the true
negatives over all four classes,
the true positives + the false positives +
the false negatives + the true negatives.
In many applications accuracy
is a useful measure for systems.
But there is a particular scenario
in which it's not a useful measure.
And that scenario is when you are dealing
with things that are uncommon.
So for example, suppose that we're wanting
to detect mentions of
shoe brands in web pages.
So, the correct class is that
something is a shoe brand.
And the not class is anything else.
Well, If you're just looking through
random webpages, or Tweets, or
something, looking for
mentions of shoe brands.
Probably, I don't know,
99.99% of the words
you encounter are not going to
be the name shoe brands.
And so, what does that mean?
What that is likely to mean is, that
perhaps in total, let's say, there are,
10 mentions of a shoe brand
in a 100,000 word sample,
and 99,990 words that are not shoe brands.
Well, if we build a classifier,
presumably, even if it's a mediocre
classifier, we're going to say
most words are not a shoe brand.
And if we go straight to the limit case,
one possibility of our classifier is it
could say that no word is a shoe brand.
So, it doesn't select any
words as shoe brands.
And it says that all 100,000
words are not shoe brands.
And so that means,
the number of true negatives are 99,990,
but there are a few false negatives,
words that were shoe brands,
but the number them is 10.
So, if we then actually work out
the accuracy of this system,
you'll see that
the accuracy of the system,
Is 99.99%.
So, we have a 99.99% accurate system,
but the system has done precisely nothing.
This is very easy system to write,
you just write one line of code that says,
return false for any token, and you're
done, and yet its accuracy is amazing.
So, what's clearly missing here
is that we're just not dealing
with what we wanted to do.
So, what we wanted to do
was detect shoe brands.
So what's all-important to us is the 10
tokens which are instances of shoe brands.
And so, what we want to do is
come up with an evaluation
metric that is much more focused on,
are we detecting these very few words
that are the names of shoe brands?
And so, that's what the measures
of precision and recall do.
So, precision tells you,
of the things that you're selecting,
are they the correct things?
So, precision is saying,
of the things that you are selecting,
which is that row, what percentage of
them are correct things, this column?
So, precision is the number of true
positives out of all the things that
you selected,
the true positives + the false positives.
And then recall is the opposite measure.
So, for recall you're saying,
of the things that are correct,
what percentage of them did you find?
So for recall, the numerator is,
again, the true positives,
but this time,
the denominator is the true positives
+ the not selected, false negatives.
And so, note how looking at these measures
solves the problem that we had
last time with the shoe brands.
Because, the fact that
there is 99,990 tokens
that are true negatives is now having
no effect on these measures at all.
And so,
what will happen in our previous case,
where they're 10 tokens here and
0 tokens here,
since our classifier said every
word wasn't a shoe brand,
that what we'd find is that we'd say
that the recall of that system is 0.
It's finding none of what we
wanted to find, and, basically,
we can say a system with 0
recall isn't interesting.
And so, this suggests we'd actually want
to do better by returning some stuff.
So, what we'd like to do is label
some things as shoe brands.
So we could revise the system.
And when we revise the system,
maybe what we'll do is
we'll have it return 40
things as the name of shoes.
And so, it'll perhaps find
eight of the shoe brands, but
it'll make some mistakes and claim some
things as shoe brands that aren't.
So there will be 32 tokens over here and
then there'll be 2 tokens down here.
And then, the remainder of the tokens,
960, will be down here.
So then, at that point we can say, well,
the recall of our system is pretty good.
So it's now finding 8 out of
the 10 instances of shoe brands.
So its recall is 80%.
But the problem is that,
that recall came at a cost,
because it's now also claiming lots of
other things as shoe brands that aren't.
So, the precision of the system is now
8 over 8 + 32 = 8 out of 40 which = 20%.
1 in 5 things it returns as correct.
And so, for
a lot of practical applications, this
kind of precision is going to be too low.
It depends whether you're really
interested in finding references
to shoe brands.
And have prepared to have a human being go
through and check them all individually.
But if you want to do something more
automatic, 20% is too low of a precision.
But in this,
we see the secret of the trade-off that
balances between recall and precision.
because, almost inevitably, if you
are going to increase your recall and
find instances of something,
you are going to make some mistakes.
And so,
your precision is going to go down.
And the more you try and
boost recall, the more your precision
is going to be starting to drop.
And so, people are trading
off precision and recall.
So that's a good thing about
having these two measures,
because you can discuss the trade-off and
say,
how important to someone is
the precision of what's returned versus
how important is it to find all of
the stuff, to have high recall?
And that's a trade-off that is played out
differently in different applications.
So, in various applications such as for
things like legal applications where
you want to find all of the appropriate
evidence, such as in discovery procedures.
But what you really, really want to
be doing is having a system that is
high recall, that finds as much of
the relevant stuff as possible.
Where, in other contexts,
where what you're going to do is just
show a sampling of stuff to the user,
you might be more interested in
the stuff that's shown to the user,
being stuff that is correct that looks
good, that your precision is high.
And it doesn't really matter that you're
only showing to the user one-tenth or
one-twentieth of the things
that do satisfy their query.
So sometimes that explicit
trade-off is really useful, and
it's a really good concept to remember
when you're building NLP systems.
because in practice, whenever you're
building one of these systems,
you're choosing some trade-off point as to
how much you're emphasizing precisional
recall, and different trade-off points
are appropriate in different applications.
But sometimes that's a slightly annoying
thing, having these these two measures.
Because when people are wanting to compare
systems and say which one is better,
then you need some way to
combine these measures.
And so, that's been thought about as well.
And so, the standard way that's been
proposed to combine these measures
is something that's called the F
measure in disciplines like
information retrieval and
named entity recognition.
So, what is the F measure?
What the F measure is,
is it's neither more nor
less than a weighted harmonic mean.
So at this point, we have to kind of
revise a little bit of math on means.
So, you doubtless remember
the arithmetic mean,
which is just the average of two things.
And you, perhaps,
also remember a geometric mean.
But in addition to both of those,
there's the harmonic mean.
And in the harmonic mean,
what you do is you take the reciprocal
of two quantities and then add them and
then take the reciprocal of that.
And if you work through in
more detail what that does,
the harmonic mean ends up as
a very conservative average.
So, if you put in two
numbers into a harmonic mean,
it's fairly close to
the minimum of the two numbers.
Not completely at the minimum, but
it's nearer to the minimum than either
the arithmetic or geometric means.
Then in particular, for
this F measure, we're allowed to
put weights on these two terms.
And so, this is this alpha factor.
So, the weighting is how much to pay
more attention to the precision or
how much to pay more
attention to the recall.
So, if you are in an application and
you know that precision is much more
important to you, you can actually
express that utility trade-off
by putting a particular value
of alpha in that expresses it.
So this formulation here,
very clearly shows that the F measure
is the weighted harmonic mean, but
actually that's not the formulation
that you normally see in books.
The formulation that you normally
see in books is actually this one,
which is I guess,
just a little tidier to write.
And these two formulations are related,
and
maybe we'll work through that
in one of the exercises.
You can work out the relationship
between alpha and beta.
But effectively, this formula also
expresses a weighted harmonic mean,
and it also has a control perimeter beta,
as to how much emphasis is being
put on precision versus recall.
So while the control parameter is useful,
in the absence of other evidence,
the most commonly used thing
is a balanced F measure.
And so, the balanced F measure gets
referred to as the F1 measure.
And what that’s meaning is,
that your setting beta=1.
That then, gives you equal balance
between precision and recall,
which corresponds in turn
to alpha being a half.
And if you do the balanced F measure,
this formula here simplifies
to just this formula.
And so, this is really the thing
that you'll see most common.
So, if you don't remember any
of the rest of this stuff,
what you should do is remember
this little formula for
the F measure, 2PR divided by (P+R).
So, that should give you a good sense of
what these measures of precision recall
are, how they are combined into
the F measure, why they're useful,
and how we use them to
evaluate text classification.